README.md, before:

# Explot - exploratory data visualisation tool similar to gnuplopt 

Explot uses a command syntax similar to
[gnuplot](http://www.gnuplot.info/). The key difference is rendering
on the GPU (OpenGL right now) to allow interactive visualisation of
larger datasets.

**Note**: This is just a hobby project of mine and definitely not
ready for serious use.

## Usage

Start `explot` in a terminal and start plotting.

## Build

`explot` uses cmake as the build system and nix for dependency
management. Use `nix develop --impure` to enter a development
shell. Within this shell you can use cmake to build `explot` as
usual. `--impure` is needed because OpenGL depends on the
hardware. Unfortunately, that also means that `explot` must be started
via `nixGL explot` from the development shell, unless you are using
NixOS (I use Arch btw).

If you want to build `explot` without nix, you must make sure that
cmake can find all the dependencies. See `flake.nix` for a list of
dependencies.


## Screenshots

### Plot example
![`plot sin(x) with lines, cos(x) with lines`](./img/plot_example.png)

### Splot example
![`splot sin(x/3)*cos(x/3) with lines`](./img/splot_example.png)

### Hidden3d example
![`splot sin(sqrt(x*x + y*y))/sqrt(x*x * y*y)`](./img/hidden3d.png)

## Features

### Gnuplot featues

- [x] Basic commands `plot`, `splot`, `set` and `show`
- [x] Plotting text datafiles, as columns and as a matrix
- [x] Plotting functions and parametric curves/surfaces
- [x] Datetime handling
- [x] user-defined functions and variables
- [ ] load files
- [ ] piped data
- [ ] binary data
- Plotting styles:
  - [x] points
  - [x] lines
  - [x] impulses (2d only)
  - [ ] filledcurve
  - [ ] boxes
  - [ ] pm3d
  - [x] hiddden3d
  - [ ] vectors
  - [ ] error bars
  
### Additional features

- [x] Pressing `q` closes plot window
- [ ] Parameters for expressions that can be changed
      interactively. They will probably use a syntax like `$p1`, `$p2`
      etc similar to columns.
- [ ] Color schemes. Right now the colors are taken from the [nord
      theme](https://www.nordtheme.com/). It would be nice to have
      named color schemes.

### Gnuplot features that are out-of-scope

- Creating images for publication. `gnuplot` is a great tool for
  that. `explot` is for interactive visualisation. In particluar,
  `explot` will never support `set output` unless the scope changes.
- Fitting data.

Commit message:

improve csv reading to handle arbitrary long lines.

README.md, after:

# Explot - exploratory data visualisation tool similar to gnuplopt 

Explot uses a command syntax similar to
[gnuplot](http://www.gnuplot.info/). The key difference is rendering
on the GPU (OpenGL right now) to allow interactive visualisation of
larger datasets.

**Note**: This is just a hobby project of mine and definitely not
ready for serious use.

## Usage

Start `explot` in a terminal and start plotting.

## Build

`explot` uses cmake as the build system and nix for dependency
management. Use `nix develop --impure` to enter a development
shell. Within this shell you can use cmake to build `explot` as
usual. `--impure` is needed because OpenGL depends on the
hardware. Unfortunately, that also means that `explot` must be started
via `nixGL explot` from the development shell, unless you are using
NixOS (I use Arch btw).

If you want to build `explot` without nix, you must make sure that
cmake can find all the dependencies. See `flake.nix` for a list of
dependencies.


## Screenshots

### Plot example
![`plot sin(x) with lines, cos(x) with lines`](./img/plot_example.png)

### Splot example
![`splot sin(x/3)*cos(x/3) with lines`](./img/splot_example.png)

### Hidden3d example
![`splot sin(sqrt(x*x + y*y))/sqrt(x*x + y*y)`](./img/hidden3d.png)

## Features

### Gnuplot featues

- [x] Basic commands `plot`, `splot`, `set` and `show`
- [x] Plotting text datafiles, as columns and as a matrix
- [x] Plotting functions and parametric curves/surfaces
- [x] Datetime handling
- [x] user-defined functions and variables
- [ ] load files
- [ ] piped data
- [ ] binary data
- Plotting styles:
  - [x] points
  - [x] lines
    - [x] dashed lines
  - [x] impulses (2d only)
  - [ ] filledcurve
  - [ ] boxes
  - [ ] pm3d
  - [x] hiddden3d
  - [ ] vectors
  - [ ] error bars
  
### Additional features

- [x] Pressing `q` closes plot window
- [ ] Parameters for expressions that can be changed
      interactively. They will probably use a syntax like `$p1`, `$p2`
      etc similar to columns.
- [ ] Time variable (e.g. `$t`) for expressions, so that plots can
      change over time.
- [ ] Color schemes. Right now the colors are taken from the [nord
      theme](https://www.nordtheme.com/). It would be nice to have
      named color schemes.

### Gnuplot features that are out-of-scope

- Creating images for publication. `gnuplot` is a great tool for
  that. `explot` is for interactive visualisation. In particluar,
  `explot` will never support `set output` unless the scope changes.
- Fitting data.
